# Progress update 3
Date: 10/02/2025
Time: 16:00-17:00
 
Dear supervisors, 
 
Here is the planning for our upcoming meeting. 
 
_Planning_
- Progress update
    - Reviewed all literature, except for papers on particular applications of multilevel Schwarz preconditioners
    - Wrote sections on Projection methods, (P)CG, Nonlinear systems (inexact newton), Schwarz domain decomposition and several coarse spaces (Nicolaides, DtN-based, MsFEM, ACMS, AMS)
    - Read through Felipe's msfem-sandbox repo
    - Added experiments on the best & worst case spectrum for CG with corresponding convergence plots
    - DCO received & uploaded to MaRe
    - Sent reminder mail to Henk Schuttelaars, requesting him to join my thesis-committee
- Questions
    - Comparison between DtN and MsFEM/ACMS
    - Dolean. et al explains the reasoning behind DtN, i.e. why low frequency modes of the DtN operator are used for the coarse space. Is there a similar reasoning for MsFEM? If so, what is it?
    - Generalized eigenvalue problems for coarse space basis functions
        - If not by lumping the mass matrix, what is the preferred method for solving these problems for the 
            1. moderately sized DtN-based or ACMS-D with Dirichlet BCs, and;
            2. 'economic' ACMS-N,k with Neumann BCs (slab)? 
    - AMS
        - Why "Algebraic"?
        - Method or framework?
        - (Felipe's paper) Derivation of Eq. 5 + why is this energy minimizing?
        - (Felipe's paper) How does the localization assumption lead to the elimination of the lower diagonal blocks in Eq. 6?
        - (Felipe's paper) How is partition of unit preserved by the extra terms in Eq. 7?
- Research topic
    - Need for a coarse indication of research direction (pun intended)
    - Research question(s)
- Project description
    - Includes above research topic
    - Seperate document?
    - Short version necessary for MaRe
- Roadmap
    - Estimation of dates for Lit review, Green light, etc.
    - should be submitted with project in MaRe
- Scheduling
    - Next meeting
    - Session with Felipe about msfem-sandbox

_Notes_