# Progress update 2
Date: 06/01/2025
Time: 14:00-15:00

Topics:
- Including references
	- Added more explicit referencing at beginning of chapter
	- Every non-authentic equation has a reference now
	- will be checked at lit review submission
- Determination of CG residual polynomial
	- Succes! Meurant was very helpful.
- Discuss findings on effect of eigenvalue distribution on CG convergence rate
	- Determined predicted number of iterations using existing error bound
	- Best case I found CG converged in half the steps predicted by the error bound
	- It appears there might exist certain 'nodes' of the CG residual polynomial. 
	- The A-norm of the error can be expressed as a weighted sum of the residual polynomial evaluated at the eigenvalues
	- This suggests that the location of eigenvalue clusters influences convergence, aside from the number and spread thereof.
- Steps taken with MaRe 
	- Submitted project 
	- Requested Declaration of Credits Obtained (DCO)
	- Could not find Felipe in the database. So I'll request him to register.
- Teams channel
	- I would like to make a Microsoft Team
	- Advantages are:
		- more easily communicate any findings
		- post questions
		- plan & host (online) meetings (calendar is synced with outlook)
		- possibility for multiple channels (prevents one 'messy' channel)
	- Disadvantage:
		- too many notifications so messages might get lost -> try mentioning people for timely responses
- Acces to my repo (?)
	- Yes, please. it is more convenient for checking on-demand w.r.t. version control 

To Do:
- send invite for repo 
- set up Team
- get DCO
- what is the absolute worst/best case distribution?
- maybe add convergence plot of the CG iteration
